README.md, before:

# docker-samba
## About

[Samba](https://wiki.samba.org) Docker image based on Alpine Linux and [crazy-max docker-samba](https://github.com/Axia-SA/docker-samba) repository.<br />
This container includes a web service discovery (wsdd, using `smbd`) to make the server discoverable by all Windows PCs on the same workgroup.


___

* [Features](#features)
* [Build locally](#build-locally)
* [Image](#image)
* [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
* [Volumes](#volumes)
* [Ports](#ports)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Usage](#usage)
  * [Docker Compose](#docker-compose)
  * [Command line](#command-line)
* [Notes](#notes)
  * [Status](#status)
* [Upgrade](#upgrade)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [License](#license)

## Features

* Easy [configuration](#configuration) through YAML
* Improve [operability with Mac OS X clients](https://wiki.samba.org/index.php/Configure_Samba_to_Work_Better_with_Mac_OS_X)
* This version mantains some support for legacy protocols including NetBIOS

## Build locally

```shell
git clone https://github.com/Axia-SA/docker-samba.git
cd docker-samba

# Build image and output to docker (default)
docker buildx bake

# Build multi-platform image
docker buildx bake image-all
```

## Environment variables

* `TZ`: Timezone assigned to the container (default `UTC`)
* `SAMBA_WORKGROUP`: NT-Domain-Name or [Workgroup-Name](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html#WORKGROUP). (default `WORKGROUP`)
* `SAMBA_SERVER_STRING`: [Server string](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html#SERVERSTRING) is the equivalent of the NT Description field. (default `Docker Samba Server`)
* `SAMBA_LOG_LEVEL`: [Log level](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html#LOGLEVEL). (default `0`)
* `SAMBA_FOLLOW_SYMLINKS`: Allow to [follow symlinks](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html#FOLLOWSYMLINKS). (default `yes`)
* `SAMBA_WIDE_LINKS`: Controls whether or not links in the UNIX file system may be followed by the server. (default `yes`)
* `SAMBA_HOSTS_ALLOW`: Set of hosts which are permitted to access a service. (default `127.0.0.0/8 10.0.0.0/8 172.16.0.0/12 192.168.0.0/16`)
* `SAMBA_INTERFACES`: Allows you to override the default network interfaces list.
* `SAMBA_DISABLE_NETBIOS`: Disable NetBIOS for older connections. Values can be `yes` or `no` (default is `yes`)

> More info: https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html

## Volumes

* `/data`: Contains cache, configuration and runtime data

## Ports

* `137/udp`
* `138/udp`
* `139/tcp`
* `445/tcp`: Samba Server

> More info: https://wiki.samba.org/index.php/Samba_NT4_PDC_Port_Usage

## Configuration

Before using this image you have to create the YAML configuration file `/data/config.yml` to be able to create users,
provide global options and add shares. Here is an example:

```yaml
auth:
  - user: foo
    uid: 1000
    gid: 1000
    password: bar
  - user: baz
    uid: 1100
    gid: 1200
    password_file: /run/secrets/baz_password

global:
  - "force user = foo"
  - "force group = foo"

share:
  - name: foo
    path: /samba/foo
    browsable: yes
    readonly: no
    guestok: no
    validusers: foo
    writelist: foo
    veto: no
```

`veto: no` is a list of predefined files and directories that will not be
visible or accessible:

```
/._*/.apdisk/.AppleDouble/.DS_Store/.TemporaryItems/.Trashes/desktop.ini/ehthumbs.db/Network Trash Folder/Temporary Items/Thumbs.db/
```

More info: https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html#VETOFILES

A more complete example is available [here](examples/compose/data/config.yml).

### Docker Compose

Docker compose is the recommended way to run this image. Copy the content of folder [examples/compose](examples/compose)
in `/var/samba/` on your host for example. Edit the compose and configuration files with your preferences and run the
following commands:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
docker-compose logs -f
```

### Command line

You can also use the following minimal command:

```shell
docker run -d --network host \
  -v "$(pwd)/data:/data" \
  --name samba crazymax/samba
```

## Upgrade

Recreate the container whenever I push an update:

```bash
docker-compose pull
docker-compose up -d
```

## Notes
### Status

Use the following commands to check the logs and status:

```shell
docker-compose logs samba
docker-compose exec samba smbstatus
```

## Contributing

Want to contribute? Awesome! The most basic way to show your support is to star the project, or to raise issues. You can also support this project by [**becoming a sponsor on GitHub**](https://github.com/sponsors/cristian1604).

Thanks again for your support, it is much appreciated! :pray:

## License

MIT. See `LICENSE` for more details.

Commit message:

Update README with link to dockerhub

README.md, after:

# docker-samba
## About

[Samba](https://wiki.samba.org) Docker image based on Alpine Linux and [crazy-max docker-samba](https://github.com/Axia-SA/docker-samba) repository.<br />
This container includes a web service discovery (wsdd, using `smbd`) to make the server discoverable by all Windows PCs on the same workgroup.

Instead build from scratch this container, you can pull it from [dockerhub here](https://hub.docker.com/r/cbottazzi/docker-samba)

___

* [Features](#features)
* [Build locally](#build-locally)
* [Image](#image)
* [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
* [Volumes](#volumes)
* [Ports](#ports)
* [Configuration](#configuration)
* [Usage](#usage)
  * [Docker Compose](#docker-compose)
  * [Command line](#command-line)
* [Notes](#notes)
  * [Status](#status)
* [Upgrade](#upgrade)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [License](#license)

## Features

* Easy [configuration](#configuration) through YAML
* Improve [operability with Mac OS X clients](https://wiki.samba.org/index.php/Configure_Samba_to_Work_Better_with_Mac_OS_X)
* This version mantains some support for legacy protocols including NetBIOS

## Build locally

```shell
git clone https://github.com/Axia-SA/docker-samba.git
cd docker-samba

# Build image and output to docker (default)
docker buildx bake

# Build multi-platform image
docker buildx bake image-all
```

## Environment variables

* `TZ`: Timezone assigned to the container (default `UTC`)
* `SAMBA_WORKGROUP`: NT-Domain-Name or [Workgroup-Name](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html#WORKGROUP). (default `WORKGROUP`)
* `SAMBA_SERVER_STRING`: [Server string](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html#SERVERSTRING) is the equivalent of the NT Description field. (default `Docker Samba Server`)
* `SAMBA_LOG_LEVEL`: [Log level](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html#LOGLEVEL). (default `0`)
* `SAMBA_FOLLOW_SYMLINKS`: Allow to [follow symlinks](https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html#FOLLOWSYMLINKS). (default `yes`)
* `SAMBA_WIDE_LINKS`: Controls whether or not links in the UNIX file system may be followed by the server. (default `yes`)
* `SAMBA_HOSTS_ALLOW`: Set of hosts which are permitted to access a service. (default `127.0.0.0/8 10.0.0.0/8 172.16.0.0/12 192.168.0.0/16`)
* `SAMBA_INTERFACES`: Allows you to override the default network interfaces list.
* `SAMBA_DISABLE_NETBIOS`: Disable NetBIOS for older connections. Values can be `yes` or `no` (default is `yes`)

> More info: https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html

## Volumes

* `/data`: Contains cache, configuration and runtime data

## Ports

* `137/udp`
* `138/udp`
* `139/tcp`
* `445/tcp`: Samba Server

> More info: https://wiki.samba.org/index.php/Samba_NT4_PDC_Port_Usage

## Configuration

Before using this image you have to create the YAML configuration file `/data/config.yml` to be able to create users,
provide global options and add shares. Here is an example:

```yaml
auth:
  - user: foo
    uid: 1000
    gid: 1000
    password: bar
  - user: baz
    uid: 1100
    gid: 1200
    password_file: /run/secrets/baz_password

global:
  - "force user = foo"
  - "force group = foo"

share:
  - name: foo
    path: /samba/foo
    browsable: yes
    readonly: no
    guestok: no
    validusers: foo
    writelist: foo
    veto: no
```

`veto: no` is a list of predefined files and directories that will not be
visible or accessible:

```
/._*/.apdisk/.AppleDouble/.DS_Store/.TemporaryItems/.Trashes/desktop.ini/ehthumbs.db/Network Trash Folder/Temporary Items/Thumbs.db/
```

More info: https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/current/man-html/smb.conf.5.html#VETOFILES

A more complete example is available [here](examples/compose/data/config.yml).

### Docker Compose

Docker compose is the recommended way to run this image. Copy the content of folder [examples/compose](examples/compose)
in `/var/samba/` on your host for example. Edit the compose and configuration files with your preferences and run the
following commands:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
docker-compose logs -f
```

### Command line

You can also use the following minimal command:

```shell
docker run -d --network host \
  -v "$(pwd)/data:/data" \
  --name samba cbottazzi/docker-samba
```

## Upgrade

Recreate the container when exists an update:

```bash
docker-compose pull
docker-compose up -d
```

## Notes
### Status

Use the following commands to check the logs and status:

```shell
docker-compose logs samba
docker-compose exec samba smbstatus
```

## Contributing

Want to contribute? Awesome! The most basic way to show your support is to star the project, or to raise issues. You can also support this project by [**becoming a sponsor on GitHub**](https://github.com/sponsors/cristian1604).

Thanks again for your support, it is much appreciated! :pray:

## License

MIT. See `LICENSE` for more details.
